# Three Body Problem Simulator
Simple program which simulates a three body problem evolution of a system.
Program performs many actions during runtime:
- solve a three body problem for a specified configuration
- plot detailed information about system evolution
- plot a phase diagram of a system
- create an animation of system's time evolution

## Setup
**Note: Python >=3.9 is required**

Dependency setup is rather standard if user is familiar with Python `venv` package.
1) Create and activate a virtual environment using builtin `venv` package
```
# this command creates a directory called ".venv" in current directory, which includes all necessary files
# name '.venv' is arbitrary, you can change it if you fancy doing so
python -m venv .venv

# activate virtual environment
source .venv/bin/activate
```

2) Download dependencies
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3) Run the program
```
python main.py <configuration>
```

4) Once done, disable virtual environment
```
deactivate
```

## Running program
Once environment is activated/packages are installed you can run the program.

Running `python main.py --help` will show list of available options. `configuration` option is required, possible vasues are lsited at the end of help message.

Program accepts other arguments, mainly `--*-file` argument family which allows for specifying alternative names for plots generated by the program. Note that extension is required (e.g. use "myfile.png" instead of "myfile"). `--quiet` flag can also be passed to disable showing interactive during program's runtime. All these options are meant to simplify automating the program with shell scripts.

Example usage:
```
python main.py newton_problem
```

Example usage with no interactive plots and renaming trajectories plot:
```
python main.py newton_problem --trajectories-file myfile.png --quiet
```

Note that chosen configuration may influence the number of plots generated, some have additional parameters defined which trigger  e.g. Lyapunov exponent generation or zoomed phase plot. For more details refer to program documentation.

Also note that adding new configuration is trivial, simply add new function to `src/Configurations.py` with `params` dictionary defined in the function's body. Program will automatically pick up new configuration and will create a new entry in available modes list, which will be directly callable from command line.

### Configurations
Configuration names are either self-explainatory or easily recognisable. Some of them are common three body problems encountered by scientists across centuries (like Newton problem), some are taken from newer publications (mainly Xiaoming Li et al and Suvakov et al). Links to every paper are available in program documentation.

## Documentation generation
Since documentation is being generated for both html and Latex targets ensure that you have `tex` and `doxygen` packages installed.

Example installation command (for Debian-based Linux systems):
```
# NOTE: this will take a while to run
sudo apt update && sudo apt install doxygen texlive-full
```

NOTE: commands below have been turned into a handy script `generate_documentation.sh`, use it instead for quick documentation generation (make sure you set correct file permissions).

Once packages are installed you can proceed with generating documentation with following command:
```
doxygen Doxyfile
```

This will create a directory `docs/` with subdirectories `html/` and `latex/`. Html version is ready to view, simply open `index.html` in your preeferred browser.

To compile `tex` and generate a .pdf documentation file run following commands:
```
cd docs/latex
make
```
This will generate `refman.pdf` file in `docs/latex/` directory.


To open it run following generic command:
```
open refman.pdf
```